President Trump (00:05):

Hi.

(00:13)
Well, thank you very much. And this is something very important for all of us, it's a vaccine EO. I'm delighted to be here in the Oval Office as our administration takes another historic step in our mission to Make America Healthy Again. Today, we're proud to officially announce the United States of America's Gold Standard Childhood Vaccine Recommendations, and that has to do with many subjects, but including autism in particular. I want to thank the man who has done more than perhaps anyone else to bring about this real revolution, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., my friend, and he's doing a fantastic job. I'm proud of you. Give me a very powerful hand to use. Strong guy, by the way.

(01:05)
Thanks as well to Director of the NIH, Jay Bhattacharya, Deputy Assistant to the President of Domestic Policy, Dr. Heidi Overton. Our MAHA moms, including Jayme Franklin is with us today, a very special person, and also the medical experts and professionals who've worked very hard on getting this to happen, this day to come. For long and far too long, long period of time, America's recommended more childhood vaccines than any peer nation, and even twice as many doses as some European countries, and even more than that. In many cases, we're requiring 72 jabs for our beautiful, healthy, lovely, delicate little children, including giving the hepatitis B shot to infants and newborns on top of many other vaccinations. The hepatitis B shouldn't be given until they are 14 or 15 years old. They were given early.

(02:08)
Effective immediately, my administration's recognizing Gold Standard Childhood Vaccine Recommendations for only 11 core vaccinations against the most serious and dangerous diseases along with the MMR, which hopefully will be split up. You have the MMR, we want it in three separate vaccinations given at separate times. Together, there could be a possibility they're quite lethal and separately it looks like they are not at all lethal, but just very effective. So the MMR, we want to have separate visits separate times. The vaccine being broken into three separate single doses and vaccines being administered in separate visits. For example, at one year you should have five separate visits for vaccines rather than getting them all in the same day. And I saw this early on and I've seen proof of it where they have a vaccination that looks like the size of a bottle of soda poured into a little child's body, and bad things happen in too many cases because this is an explosion. This is an epidemic.

(03:18)
So at year one, you should have five separate visits for vaccines rather than giving them all in the same day. Very importantly, vaccinations for hepatitis B, COVID-19, and influenza among others are no longer recommended for all children. In addition, this executive order directs the attorney general to advance legal challenges against states that violate children's rights to religious or medical vaccination exemptions, for the exemptions. Other countries with high vaccination rates without mandates for school, though what we do is other countries have very high vaccination rates and they have not had and they don't have without mandates for school. Parents can still choose to give their children all of the vaccinations if they wish. It's up to the parents who are making recommendations that are strong, but it's up to the parents if they wish and they will be covered by insurance.

(04:17)
However, this updated recommendation finally aligns the United States with other advanced and developed nations around the world. More importantly, it aligns us with common sense and knowledge. Decades ago, children received only a small fraction of the vaccines required today. In those times, people were much healthy and of course the high rates of autism now observed did not exist. So there's a reason for such epidemic rates of autism. And we're going to bring it back to much closer to where it was. While we do not know exactly what the cause is with respect to autism. It is essential to our research efforts that we have the very best vaccine recommendations in the entire world. So we're reducing them. We're changing it to visits over a period of a year, a year and a half. So they get 20% of what they would have gotten in one big shot. A big shot like the size of a large glass of something.

(05:18)
This announcement is a major victory for parents' rights, religious and constitutional rights and for the gold standard science. And we will continue to do the research and update the recommendations as we learn more. And I think you're going to see some amazing results breaking it up. It's not only that you're doing fewer vaccines or jabs, as they say, but you're doing them in a series of visits to the doctor, much smaller amounts. To ensure Americans benefit from these recommendations, my administration is fully committed to using every tool at our disposal, including a review of potential funding and finding. Frankly, we're doing funding and we're doing findings. And the findings will be announced almost immediately as we gain some strong purity.

(06:07)
So now I'd like to have Bobby say a few words followed by Jay, Heidi and Jayme. And then I'll sign the executive order, which I'm very excited about. Because I came in and I said, "I want to find what's going on with autism." It's many, many times what it used to be years ago and it gets progressively worse and we had progressively more and more vaccines. So in a nutshell, and you can see it through this, we're breaking up the vaccines and we're breaking them up into time periods. Okay. Not so complicated. And we think we're going to have a tremendous result from doing that.

(06:47)
Very simply, large amounts of vaccine, large amounts of like vats of vaccine are currently pumped into your child's body. And we're doing 20% of that at each visit. And we'll let time elapse between visits so the body can handle this massive amount of fluid being pumped in. I think it's going to make a big difference. There are some groups that have virtually no problem with autism. And I have to say this, there are groups that aren't big into the world of vaccines. So there's something wrong when we see record numbers all the time. Every year for years and years, every year gets higher, higher, higher, autism. And we think we have a very good recommendation and a lot of good things are happening.

(07:43)
We're going to be releasing some very detailed paper. Here's another one, European Countries Versus The United States. Look at that. These are high level, very medically powerful European countries. You see the top, that little chart says a lot, but that's the difference. So with that, I'd like to have Bobby say a few words please, and then we'll go to the others.

(08:12)
Please, Bobby.

Secretary Kennedy Jr. (08:13):

Thank you, Mr. President. I want to start by just reinforcing something that the president said, which is the source of his concern about this issue. And I'll just give an example. In 1970, the biggest epidemiological study at that time in history was performed. And the university scientists from across this country looked at all the eight year olds in Wisconsin, about 900,000 children. And they were looking for autism and they knew what autisms looked like. And they came back with an incidental rate of 0.8 per 10,000. So less than 1 in 10,000. The rate, according to CDC today in this country is one in every 31 children. In California, it's 1 in every 19 children, 1 in every 12.5 boys.

(09:07)
There has been a dramatic increase. One of the things that the industry likes to say, one of the talking points, which the press loves to parrot, is, "Oh, we're just noticing it more." But this is an absurdity and this is an assertion that has been debunked again and again and again by peer reviewed literature. It's also debunked by common sense because if we were just noticing it more we would notice it in older groups, we're not. We're only noticing it in kids who were born around 1989 or after. The older generations are not seeing those increases. So something happened in the mid '90s that changed our children and it has to be an environmental exposure because genes don't cause epidemics. It can provide a vulnerability, but you need an environmental toxin.

(10:05)
And what the President has charged us with is finding which one of those exposures or which collection of exposures are causing this epidemic. For decades, I fought for a simple principle. When it comes to the health of our children, government has an obligation to follow the evidence wherever it leads. Tell the American people the truth and give parents information they need to make informed decisions for their families. Mr. President, you gave us a mandate to do just that. You directed HHS to examine America's childhood vaccine recommendations against the best available science and the practices of other developed nations. We did that work and on January 5th, HHS and CDC overhauled the childhood immunization schedule, reducing the number of diseases universally recommended for vaccines from 17 to 11.

Secretary Kennedy Jr. (11:00):

... recommended for vaccines from 17 to 11, and establishing distinct categories of recommendations based upon the scientific evidence. Our assessment found that the United States recommended more childhood vaccines than any other peer nation. As Trump mentioned the number, there's 72 jabs before 18, but it actually could be up to 94 jabs. Nobody else has anything like that. And then many other countries or most other countries achieve high vaccination rates through education, informed consent, and public trust rather than mandates. Today with this executive order, you are building on that work and acting on that evidence. We will preserve access to vaccine strength and safety monitoring, expand research, give doctors and parents better information, and restore informed consent and parental choice to their rightful place in American medicine. At HHS, we are already moving. Across multiple agencies, FDA, CDC, NIH, ARPA-H, NTP, the National Toxicity Program, and other parts of the department, we have already launched an unprecedented research effort examining vaccine safety and long-term health outcomes in American children. We are putting some of the largest health data sets in the country to work, including CDC's Vaccine Safety Datalink, FDA's best systems, and other major federal and private health data sources. We're pursuing dozens of studies and analyses. We are comparing health outcomes in vaccinated versus unvaccinated children. We're examining aluminum adjuvants, the timing of the hepatitis B vaccine, vaccines administered during pregnancy, and outcomes ranging from allergies to autoimmune disease to autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders. At NIH, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences are working with the National Toxicity Program on a comprehensive review of vaccine adjuvants, ingredients that are added to vaccines that amplify the body's immune response. They will determine what the existing science establishes and where uncertainty remains and where we need additional research. We're bringing that same determination to autism. NIH has launched the Autism Data Science Initiative with 13 research awards, examining autism prevalence, causes, treatments, and services. Five of these will include vaccines among the potential factors that they examine. Dr. Bhattacharya will discuss that work in greater detail. Next month, ARPA-H is preparing a major new initiative focused on foundational causes and biology of autism and on better diagnostics, treatments, technologies, and tools for people with autism and their families. We will examine every biologically plausible hypothesis and leave no legitimate scientific question unexplored.

(14:16)
Mr. President, you have told us that you want answers, so do I. We have just over two years to finish the work, and I know you're impatient, and we are moving with urgency as that deadline demands. We will bring you actions and findings as soon as they are ready. We will not wait for the 90-day period. Within 90 days, as you have directed, we will deliver the full response required by this executive order.

(14:46)
Our Task Force on Safer Childhood Vaccines was established by Congress in 1986, but went dormant in 1998. Last year, after nearly three decades, this administration reinstated it. It's required by the statute, and yet it was discontinued. And you restored that congressional mandate. The task force is already working to expand vaccine options, examine the timing and sequencing of childhood vaccines, strengthen safety monitoring, advance research into alternative adjuvants, and continuously evaluate risks and benefits using American and international evidence.

(15:29)
Taken together, this is what gold standard science means. No predetermined answers, no institutional taboos, no sacred cows, no hiding uncertainty. Test the hypothesis, examine the data, replicate the results. Tell the public what we find. Be honest. This is the standard you have set for this administration. It's this standard I intend to enforce at HHS.

(15:56)
Mr. President, you asked us to get this done, and we are getting it done. We will keep working with urgency until American parents can have confidence that the medical advice that their government gives them is worthy of their trust. Thank you very much, Mr. President.

Donald Trump (16:10):

Thank you very much. Thank you, Bobby. Jay, please.

Dr. Jay Bhattacharya (16:16):

Today's a historic day for public health in this country. The executive order recognizes the plight of millions of parents across the country with autistic children. Autism is a very complicated condition with very heterogeneous ranging from relatively mild symptoms where kids are full functioning to a devastating condition that fundamentally alters their lives and the lives of their families. You've heard from Secretary Kennedy and from the president, their passion for the plight of these families, to see how we can help them understand the condition, to help prevent those conditions from happening in the first place. What this executive order does is, it orders us at HHS to take this extremely seriously as we have been for the last year and a half and more of the presidency.

(17:10)
At the NIH, what we've done is we have established the Autism Data Science Initiative, which started almost a year, actually more than a year ago, where we funded a dozen and more major research teams to answer the question of, what is the cause of autism? It's a complicated biological phenomenon. It's not going to be a simple answer. It will have, as the secretary said, potentially genetic predisposition, but that cannot possibly explain why we've seen such a large rise in autism. There must be some other environmental factors involved. And that's the basis we're thinking that's driving these dozen and more research teams that are looking at this.

(17:53)
Science takes time. It's very frustrating. And I know I felt that frustration myself. As a scientist, you don't get the answers immediately. But the teams have been working assiduously for a year. The main thing I want to emphasize that we've already accomplished in that year is we've changed how people and the scientific community thinks about autism. You've given them permission to ask the question that would otherwise have been difficult to answer, where if you come to an answer that links autism to some other politically correct things and you all of a sudden have this link, as a scientist, you fear that your career is going to be over.

(18:31)
What we've done in this administration is we've given permission to scientists to honestly answer this question, to find the link for the first time. With the change in the vaccines recommendations that the president has signed, what you have given is parents a choice, autonomy, a decision making over how they want the vaccines given to their kids. I mean, I believe fundamentally that many vaccines are important. I've said, for instance, the measles vaccine is important if we want to take control of the measles outbreak. But at the same time, we shouldn't be keeping kids out of school because they have made different decisions than other parents. Our European colleagues don't do that.

(19:08)
A lot of the collapse in trust in public health has come because of these mandates that we've seen imposed during the Biden administration on the COVID vaccine and so many other things. What this does is it restores autonomy of families and parents to make good decisions for their kids. It allows and continues to emphasize the importance of science in recommendations about vaccines and fundamentally restores a sort of a healthy relationship between public health and parents, more in line with what happens in European countries than in the United States, where their childhood outcomes are often much better than we see here. It's a big first step that builds on what we've been working on the last year and a half toward a more sane public health system that sees healthy kids grow up without pressure, without undue influence to make good decisions for their families and for their kids.

Secretary Kennedy Jr. (20:04):

Thank you. Steve, please.

Stephen Miller (20:06):

Thank you, Mr. President. Because of your courage and leadership, Mr. President, millions of parents all over America today are breathing an enormous sigh of relief. I say this as the parent of young children myself. Millions and millions of parents feel they've been pressured when their children are just weeks out of the hospital to take five shots, six shots, seven shots all at once. They're told, "It'll be normal. Your kid will have a fever of 103 for three or four days. Your kid will stop eating for a week. Your kid's going to change all their sleeping. Don't worry. It's totally fine. It's totally normal." Nobody has studied it. Nobody's looked at it. Nobody's thought about it.

(20:44)
The pressure from the pharmaceutical industry and from aspects of the medical industry to pump your kids full of shots days after birth with no understanding of the long-term consequences has been a medical travesty. This is an issue, Mr. President, that you have been leading on for years. Of course, the man to your left has been leading on this issue for years as well too. It's a really incredible moment to stand here today and finally see the concerns of parents around this country addressed.

(21:12)
There's been so much heartache where parents have had healthy children with no issues. They know they've been pressured into doing things that they didn't want to do. And medical science has told them for years that their concerns are not valid. This order does two fundamental, incredibly important things. First is we get off of this ridiculous path of having our children get 70 to 90 shots. That is wantonly excessive. Remember, each and every one of these shots produces a profound immunological response. So across any large population, if you give a kid shot after shot after shot, you're going to have vaccine injuries. You're going to have immunological issues. You're going to have potentially neurological issues. Secondly, and so important to you, Mr. President, is the unbundling of the shot. Why do you need to have these shots bundled into these packages? Why-

Stephen Miller (22:00):

Why do you need to have these shots bundled into these packages? Why can't you split it into five visits and give this young body, if a parent wants to do a vaccine, one shot at a time? Why is it that in Japan, you can get a separate measles shot, a separate mump shot, a separate rubella shot? But in America, it has to all be packaged together. This is a courageous action, Mr. President. This is an action that ensures the dignity of patients, the dignity of parents. It restores choice. It says we're going to let the parent and the doctor make a sound medical decision. And I'll just say one more time, the fact that you have had the courage to push this forward, knowing the unfair criticisms from some in the establishment, and to give the chance for Bobby, who spent decades representing parents, to stand here today, it's such a profound moment.

(22:47)
It's such a beautiful moment, and it's going to lead to such incredible advances in our understanding of children's health. And making sure that yes, we can be a country that has safety and security for our families and our children, while at the same time protecting patient choice. You can have both these things. This order accomplishes it. I'm so proud to be standing here today, Mr. President.

President Trump (23:07):

Thank you very much, Steve. Thank you.

(23:09)
Heidi?

Heidi (23:11):

Yes. Thank you, Mr. President. It's an honor to be here today. It is a historic day and a historic action. Many people have asked the difference between this executive order and what you signed in December in a presidential memorandum, and what you signed later on in May. Just want to quickly answer that question. In December, the presidential memorandum directed HHS to produce the scientific assessment that they did, and then they overhauled the vaccine schedule. Those actions have since been held up in court. And so right now, Americans don't have access to that information, and you are correcting that wrong today and saying, "I am giving Americans this information directly so that they know what HHS found in the scientific assessment themselves." But most importantly, states are actually the place where school vaccination requirements are implemented. It's state laws and regulations. And the CDC would advise the states on those policies. Since January of 2026, 28 states have no longer agreed with the CDC, and they recommend their own policies. A lot of those states are blue states, and they're working with outside entities like the American Academy of Pediatrics that still rely on recommendations that were in place in 2024, with the 72 injections by age 18. So you are saying, especially to states that are willing, "Take a look at this scientific assessment. These are the gold standard childhood vaccine recommendations, and you should put this into your state law. So that when parents go to enroll their kids in school, they do not have to meet some of the requirements for the vaccines that are no longer recommended for all children." That brings us in line with European nations. And importantly, those nations do not have vaccine mandates for school. A lot of those nations maintain vaccination rates for measles above 90%.

(24:51)
Denmark, Ireland, Spain, Portugal all have vaccination rates for measles above 90% without mandates for school. And so, they do that through increased public trust and education, and letting parents be informed and make those decisions. We are encouraging to adopt those decisions here today. We do still recommend the measles vaccine for all children, but we want parents to be informed about the timing and to have the option to separate them out. So Mr. President, this is a historic action. We are going to be working directly with states so that we're not reliant on the court case to resolve. We are doing it right away so that parents get the benefit from state laws changing. Thank you, Mr. President.

President Trump (25:30):

Thank you very much. When you hear that number where it was 1 in 10,000 20 years ago, and now it's 1 in 30, or in California, 1 in 18, something happened in the meantime. Something happened environmentally or otherwise, but it's not just happenstance. Something went wrong. Some bad things were recommended. Think of it. So you have 1 in 10,000 and now it's 1 in 30. California, 1 in 18. And we got to get to the bottom of it. Please.

Speaker 1 (26:09):

Thank you so much for having me. I'm a mom, first and foremost. I have a three-and-a-half year old and I have another one on the way. And Mr. President, we are so thankful for all the work you've done in this country with the vaccines, the food systems. Thank you as well, Secretary Kennedy. I believe health is the number one issue in this country. If you don't have health and we don't have a healthy country, we don't have anything at all. And no parent should feel the pressure of, immediately their child is born, and a bunch of vaccines are pressured and pushed upon them. This is about freedom at the end of the day. This is what this country was built on: freedom for parents to make the decisions that best suit their kid.

(26:44)
And I'm not anti-vaccine at all. I'm pro-vaccine. But we want to be able to have the freedom to space it out and to choose which one works for our child. We don't believe that there's a one-size-fits-all solution for every child. So, we're so thankful for everything that you're doing, Mr. President. It's just extraordinary.

President Trump (26:59):

Good. Like the polio vaccine, it's amazing. Other vaccines, amazing. But some, there's questions about. We're going to figure it out. And I think we'll... The expression is we have really no choice, and nothing bad can happen from what we're doing. Nothing bad can happen. It's possible it doesn't work. I don't think that's much of a possibility, frankly. We're going to learn a lot. And if we could go back 20 years, 25 years, something happened in between that would lead us to the kind of numbers that we're seeing. So, could I have that and I'll sign it?

Speaker 2 (27:39):

Yes, sir.

President Trump (27:40):

Very happy to sign it.

Speaker 2 (27:41):

This is your executive order on establishing gold-standard vaccine recommendations, sir. As previous speakers have indicated, this is going to establish essentially a new vaccine schedule that is fully informed by the research and data that we have from HHS, and NIH, and other aspects of the government. It also takes a very hard line on some of the more paternalistic issues that we've been talking about here, sir, in terms of infringing on parents' religious liberty or, really, just parents' ability to make decisions for their children.

(28:13)
So as Heidi said, this is a very big deal. We're not waiting for anyone else to take action as you do so often, sir. We're just going ahead and doing the right thing based on all of the best available research, to ensure that America's parents and children are being as best protected by the federal government as they can be.

President Trump (28:30):

Very good. Thank you very much. Okay, that's a big one in my book. All right. Any questions, please?

Reporter 1 (28:57):

Mr. President-

Reporter 2 (28:58):

Mr. President, in addition to this big announcement, you've also been posting about Iran today, opposing their latest demands. You said this last round of talks was Iran's last chance before decapitation. So, what now? What comes next?

President Trump (29:11):

You'll find it out. You'll find that.

Reporter 2 (29:11):

Are you still... A massive escalation, is that still on the table?

President Trump (29:15):

We have that certainly, that ability, if we want to do that. Yeah, you'll find that.

Reporter 2 (29:18):

You said you're low-keying it with them, but you're semi-negotiating. What exactly does that mean?

President Trump (29:22):

Are you [inaudible 00:29:23]? No. Well, they asked for reparations, you might say, or they asked for money for the damage that we've done. I said, "That's a good idea. We're going to ask for money for the damage they've done over a 50-year period." Whether you go SS Cole or whether you go all of the people that were so badly hurt, so badly wounded or killed, many thousands of people, and maybe damages for the 52,000 protestors over the last four months that were killed in Iran. We think their family should get damages for killing their person, or their child, or mother, father, that were protesting. It's at least, it was 52,000 a month and a half ago. So now, what is it?

(30:05)
So if there's damages to be paid, I think Iran should pay those damages.

Reporter 3 (30:11):

Mr. President, [inaudible 00:30:12]-

Reporter 4 (30:11):

Mr. President, are you frustrated with Senate Republicans and Leader Thune for going home for recess without passing the SAVE America Act?

President Trump (30:17):

I think they should pass voter ID. I think they should pass proof of citizenship. Basically, SAVE America. SAVE America Act. I think that should be something that we should absolutely get.

Reporter 5 (30:32):

[inaudible 00:30:32] Mr. President, you're a proud father. Would you have vaccinated your children differently based on the recommendations?

President Trump (30:37):

Well, I did. I took my children for five different vaccinations. In other words, I broke it up. The one visit where they just pump what seemingly looks like gallons, where they pump so much in. I took all of my children from day one. I believed in this a long time ago. I took them with my wife. I took them through five different visits to the doctor. Essentially, they get 20% each, and I had no problem.

Reporter 5 (31:09):

And Mr. President-

(31:10)
[inaudible 00:31:12]

President Trump (31:11):

It's inconvenient. It's five stops. But it's something that I think will have a huge impact on autism.

(31:19)
Yep?

Reporter 5 (31:19):

Mr President, you mentioned-

(31:20)
[inaudible 00:31:23]

President Trump (31:20):

Go ahead, ma'am. Go.

Reporter 6 (31:23):

Mr. President, on the anti-weaponization fund, do you think it's still alive at this point? And are there any options that you're looking at to, perhaps-

President Trump (31:29):

Well, that'd be up to Todd Blanche, our new... And who will be, I think, a great attorney general.

(31:35)
Yeah, please.

Reporter 7 (31:35):

Thank you, Mr. President. Why does the establishment media so often seem to be against even asking questions about vaccines?

President Trump (31:41):

It's amazing. When you come up with a recommendation for a vaccine, it could be the medical groups, the pharmaceutical groups. I don't know. But it is amazing. There's nothing that we lose with this if... The worst thing that would happen would be nothing happens. We're not going to lose anything. At the same time, we could gain tremendous. We could save hundreds of thousands of lives, millions of lives. And I wish we could have done it a long time ago. We got stopped by court. We had a court, I guess, in Massachusetts that stopped us very early on. I believed in this for a long time, so now we're getting it done. And I think you're going to see potentially tremendous results.

(32:26)
Yeah, Dan?

Dan (32:26):

Mr. President, a topic on manufacturing, if I may. The Bureau of Labor Statistics put out some information last week, saying that US manufacturing-

President Trump (32:34):

Record manufacturing.

Dan (32:36):

... 4.6% increased in the first quarter of 2026. The Supply Management Institute, PMI, shows that manufacturing has expanded for seven consecutive months. You've talked about the American manufacturing Renaissance for about 10 years at this point. Given all the statistics and the investment that have come in, do you feel vindicated at this point?

President Trump (32:54):

So, we're doing record increases in the United States in manufacturing. A lot of that has to do with the tariffs, because companies are coming in. They're not able to sell their-

President Trump (33:00):

... do with the tariffs, because companies are coming in, they're not able to sell their product unless they come in, because they have no tariff if they build their product, whether it's a car or something else, if they make it in the United States, there is no tariff. So they're coming in. We have a record number of factories under construction, factories, plants, things as such. Toyota just announced that they're building the largest car plant. They make cars plant in the world, anywhere in the world. They are leaving Mexico, and they're coming to the United States. Many, many car plants, AI, other... They're opening.

(33:38)
I will say that they're leaving Canada, they're leaving Mexico, they're leaving Germany, they're leaving Japan, they're leaving South Korea, they're coming into the United States, because they don't want to pay a 25% tariff on a car, and they don't have to pay a tariff if they make it here. So we have the largest number of plants ever being built in the United States right now. Hard to believe, right? Because if you listen to some of our past projects, would never be a manufacturing country again. And these plants are going to be start opening up in about six months. And I can only say that the next president will get a lot of credit for what I've done. Please remember it was me, not them.

Press (34:16):

[inaudible 00:34:17].

Speaker 3 (34:16):

Mr. President, I think I heard you say that the MMR vaccine for measles, mumps, and rubella is quite lethal. Is there any evidence of that? Is there-

President Trump (34:25):

No. What I've heard is that there are some people that say it is that way, and I say, "Well, let's say there's a 5% chance of it, let's split it up. Let's split it up." Because they do say that given individual MMR, that given individual, there is no impact. In fact, they've said how safe it seems to be. But I've heard when you put them together, they can be explosive. Yeah?

Speaker 1 (34:52):

Mr. President, have you spoken with the new Attorney General, or Jeanine Pirro about prosecuting Dr. Fauci?

President Trump (34:58):

I have not spoken to him about that, no.

Speaker 4 (35:00):

Mr. President-

Speaker 1 (35:00):

Mr. President, Senators Rand Paul and Ron Johnson released some text messages from Anthony Fauci, and it appears that as early as January 2021, they knew that there could possibly be complications with pregnant women and miscarriages tied to the COVID vaccine, yet the Biden administration health officials, they didn't change their rhetoric. Your reaction?

President Trump (35:18):

Well, the Biden administration was a disaster in every way. That would be just one way, but they have been a disaster in every single way. It's unimaginable what they did in that. Forget about weaponization, forget even about, as important as what you're saying, so many of the open borders, the men and women's sports, they've just been a horrendous disaster, the highest inflation in history, and we're doing a great job.

Press (35:45):

[inaudible 00:35:46].

President Trump (35:46):

You at the back.

Speaker 5 (35:48):

Mr. President, thank you. Unbundling the shots into more visits means more copays for families. What's your recommendation for families that can't afford to keep paying for those visits?

President Trump (35:57):

Well, we're going to be working with them, and we're going to work with the families, and we're going to make sure everything works out cost-wise very well. Yeah, please.

Press (36:04):

[inaudible 00:36:04].

Speaker 6 (36:04):

Thank you, Mr. President. What recommendations do you have for Republicans heading into midterms right now? And are Democrats, with the candidates they're putting forward, making life easier for-

President Trump (36:14):

Well, the one thing is we have jihadists being elected all over the place, we have this... Whether it's communism, jihadism, it's a lot of... A friend of mine called up, he said, "You know, really, you should use the word jihadist, because that's what's happening." And I'm not sure that anybody... If you take a look at what happens in other countries, I think that's not going to be necessarily the way we want to live. But when you look at the radicalism, and the craziness of the candidates, and the stupidity of what they're suggesting, "Let's get rid of the Supreme Court, let's get rid of the presidency, let's get rid of the Senate." Sometimes I'd like to get rid of the Senate too, but I don't say it, and I wouldn't do it.

(36:55)
But they want to get rid of the Senate, they want to get rid of, ideally, the House, but they're thinking about maybe keeping the House. Isn't that nice? These are people that have been not successful. They're people that have been, in many cases, failures. They come from other failed countries, so they come here and they tell us how to run our country. They come from places like... I won't mention, because I don't want to get myself into a controversy, but they come from countries that are not great. They come from, let's say, as an example, Somalia. They come in, and then they tell us how our constitution, how our Declaration of Independence, how it works. It doesn't work that way. And they're not smart. They have no aptitude. They have nothing going, and they're telling us how to run our country. And I just don't think it's going to happen.

(37:48)
I think that they start off... Now I may be wrong, but they start off with a big disadvantage. People don't want to have radical lunatics involved in running our country, and that's what we have. We have people that are saying things that are so great. Now they're denying it, or they say, "Well, I've changed my mind." They want to defund our police. They want to terminate our military, "No military. We don't want any military in our country. We don't want our police to be paid anymore." They want our police down to almost nothing. Doesn't make sense, right?

Press (38:19):

[inaudible 00:38:21].

Speaker 7 (38:20):

Mr. President, going back to the subject of Iran, sir, can you give us any estimate of what you think the Strait of Hormuz will be-

President Trump (38:27):

Well, it's open now, we're taking a lot of... It's open now. Look, the only one that has control of the Strait of Hormuz right now is the United States Navy. We have a blockade that's been infallible. It's a steel wall. And we let people in that we want to let in, and those people come in, and they've been coming in, and they're going out. So it's actually open now. We do not let them go into Iran. They're not admitted into the strait to go to Iran, but it's open for others. Now, little bit complex-

Speaker 7 (38:59):

[inaudible 00:39:00].

President Trump (39:00):

... because they will on occasion drop a mine, and we find the mines. We've mineswept the entire strait, as you probably maybe heard, maybe you didn't hear, but we control the strait 100%. Now, can they make trouble? Yeah, they can make trouble. But they're broke, they have no money. Iran is broke, totally broke, and they're not paying their soldiers. They have inflation of 300%. As of last night, I heard 300, 309%. So we'll see what happens, but they've been bad for it. They say 47 is actually 50 now. 47, they've been saying it for three years. But for 50 years, they've been the bully of the Middle East. What they've done is terrible. They've killed hundreds of thousands of people. They've killed people, they've wounded and maimed people with the legs, the arms with the... The roadside bomb is their bomb. They're very proud of it. And now they're paying a price. Thank you very much, everybody.

Press (40:01):

[inaudible 00:40:02].

Speaker 8 (40:01):

Thank you. Thank you.

Press (40:01):

[inaudible 00:40:02].

Speaker 8 (40:01):

Thank you, guys.

Speaker 9 (40:01):

[inaudible 00:40:02], tell me what you thought [inaudible 00:40:09]?

President Trump (40:09):

No, actually The Wall Street Journal had a wrong story, he said I spoke to him. No, I have tremendous respect for Kevin Warsh. I've only spoken to him one time briefly a few days ago, just a conversation. Look, he's going to do it. He's going to run it. I know what he'd like to do, but he has to run it. He's got a board. It's not only him. It was up to him, it would be different, but he's got a board. They said I speak to him all the time, and I've spoken to him one time since his assumption, since he took over. And great conversation, but just a... He's a great guy. He's my pick. And I'm going with him 100%, but they made it sound like I live and breathe... I speak to Kevin all the time, every time. I spoke to him one time. Okay, thank you very much, everybody.

Speaker 8 (41:05):

Thank you, press. Thank you. Thank you.

Speaker 10 (41:05):

[inaudible 00:41:06].

Speaker 8 (41:05):

Thank you, press. Thank you.

Speaker 10 (41:05):

[inaudible 00:41:06].

Speaker 8 (41:05):

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir.

Speaker 10 (41:05):

[inaudible 00:41:06] any response to that young projection from Moscow?

Speaker 8 (41:05):

Thank you. Thank you, sir.

President Trump (41:06):

Well, I put it out today on Truth. I do, I have a response. I put it out today on Truth.

Speaker 8 (41:10):

Thank you.

Speaker 10 (41:10):

[inaudible 00:41:11].

President Trump (41:10):

Good response.

Speaker 10 (41:10):

Sir, could you tell me what-

President Trump (41:12):

The relationship is very good. Yeah. Thank you.

Speaker 8 (41:16):

Thank you, guys. Thank you. Thank you, Doctor.

Speaker 11 (41:18):

After you. Thank you, sir.

President Trump (41:18):

Thank you.

Speaker 11 (41:18):

[inaudible 00:41:19].

Speaker 8 (41:19):

Thank you, press. Quickly.

